Java's Garbage Collection
    GC greatly affects p99 latency, and can cause timeouts in payment gateways

Generational Setup
    - Young generation (Eden):
        New objects created here and die as 'minor GCs'
        For high-speed, frequent cleaning
    - Survivor Spaced (S0/S1):
        Used to 'age' objects between young and old.
        For objects that survive Minor GC's
    - Old Generation (Tenured):
        Long-lived objects promoted here after surviving multiple GCs (such as thread pools)
        More expensive to clean, less frequent

Key Collector implementations
    - G1 (Garbage First)
        - Splits heap into small regions, clearing those with mostly garbage first
        - Adjusts amount cleaned to stick to latency goals
        - Has Stop-The-World events, dedicating 100% CPU to GC
    - ZGC (Z Garbage Collector)
        - All work is concurrent while application threads are running
        - Pause times are sub-millisecond
        - Lower throughput than G1 as GC does work while CPU is busy with other work

    - Which to use?
        Depends on SLA. Most microservices can use G1 as the default.
        For sensitive parts (such as a real-time risk engine) where we optimise P99.9, we would use ZGC.

Observability:
    - Java offers a unified logging library (-Xlog:gc*)
    - Key metrics:
        - Allocation rate (small Eden causes constant minor GCs)
        - Promotion rate (Old gen growing too quickly)
    - JDK Mission Control

The Stack:
    Tracks thread execution and local variables
    LIFO per thread
    Primitives and references to objects stored here
    Super fast, not garbage collected (stacks pop off during execution)

The Heap:
    Warehouse for all stored objects
    Shared across all threads. Where race conditions usually occur.
    Managed by the GC.

Metaspace:
    Stores class metadat (names, methods etc)
    Can be affected by generating classes on the fly like Hibernate

Code Cache:
    Used by JIT
    Hot code paths are optimised as machine code and stored here
    If full, the JVM will stop compiling code leading to performance drops

JIT:
    Just-in-time compilation
    C1 used first: fast to run, but code is simple
    C2 used on hot paths: slow, but produces highly optimised code
    Functions too big to optimise might not be inlined (slower)
    Uses optimistic assumptions (eg. This var will never be null), but if wrong it must fall back to C1 code,
      This is called 'de-optimisation'.

Monomorphic
    If JVM observes only a single concrete implementation of a method is called, it inlines
Bimorphic
    Optimises to an inlined if-else
Megamorphic
    Three or more implementations
    Falls back to Virtual Table Lookup