System Design interviews should follow structured thinking and progress.
You should not leap directly into architecture or scale.
These interviews are unstructured and are lead by you, so you need to keep it focused.

Great video to refresh approach: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i7twT3x5yv8
Design TicketMaster: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fhdPyoO6aXI

1. Understand the problem and scope (5 min)
    Problem is usually open-ended and vague on purpose.
    We need to ask questions to understand problem fully and scope to a feature or two.
    Clarify requirements, who users are, what features we need.
    To succeed, you must scope it out!
    eg. Design a chat app
        Lots of types! All have different constraints.
        We need features in priority order, with buy-in from interviewers.
    We also need to clarify non-functional requirements.
        Usually, this centres on Performance and Scale, as they dictate architectural choices.
    Back of the envelope math for rough estimates is a good thing!
    Order of magnitude should be right.

    At end:
        - List of functional features to design
        - List of non-functional requirements driving design (scalability, capacity, availability etc)
            Have explicit consistency requirements and read-to-write ratio.

2. Propose high level design and get buy-in (20 min)
    1. API Design
        Start with a top-down approach (API first, then drill to details)

        Design a high-level REST API contract for 1 or 2 of the features. For example:
            1. Return all business on a user's location
                - GET /v1/search/:longitude/:latitude?:radius
                    Input params:
                        - longitude - double
                        - latitude - double
                        - radius - Optional: int, default is 5000 meters
                    Response:
                        {
                            "total": 10,
                            "businesses": [{businessObject}]
                        }
            2. Business owners can add, delete or update a business
                - GET /v1/business/:id -> Return info on business as-is
                - POST /v1/business -> Create a business
                - PUT /v1/business/:id -> Update existing business
                - DELETE /v1/business/:id -> Delete a business

        Also create some of the table design.
        You don't need to be super in-depth, but show the tables and fields you're thinking of
            to be mapped to the endpoints and databases.

        Make sure to check with the interviewers that they agree!

    2. High-level architecture
        1. Add a user
        2. LoadBalancer or API Gateway
        3. Lead to 'APIs' offering the API spec created in part 1
        4. Add relevant data stores depending on data types needed

        Starting with a basic 'user->api->db' gets something on the board initially,
            which you then build onto proactively with caches, sharding, gateways etc.

        Note discussion points:
            - DB scaling
            - Concurrency
            - Failure scenarios

        At this level, we are not deep diving the services, but creating a top-level view only.
        You can wave away intricacies like caching, sharding etc

    3. Data Access Patterns should be noted
        eg. Queries per second

3. Design deep dive (15 min)
    This is about identifying problematic areas, proposing solutions and discussing tradeoffs.
    You need to read the room! Pickup if there are things they are dissatisfied with.
    Ask questions actively - say why you picked something, and open the floor for discussion.
    They may give issues that you can suggest fixes for.
    Come up with at least 2 proposed solutions.
    Pick one solution and implement.

    Proactively introduce failure modes, rather than waiting for them to ask if a node dies.

4. Wrap up (5 min)
    Summarise the design, noting unique parts.
    Talk about operational readiness, for monitoring, logs and distributed tracing.

---
Short Version
    1. Gather Requirements (5 min)
        Functional: Actual actions needed in the system
        Non-Functional:
            Traffic (requests per second)
            CAP (availability vs consistency)
            Correctness (eg. webhook is 'at-least-once')
            Read or Write heavy
            Traffic Spikes (eg. Black Friday?)
    2. High-level Design (20 min)
        Core entities (no detail yet)
        REST APIs (endpoints + input)
        Data Model (tables and data)
        Top-level design layout (no sharding, horiz-scaling, complications)
            User
            Services
            Databases
    3. Deep Dive (15 min)
        Start solving failures. Pros and cons!
            - Database scaling (partitioning, sharding, replicas)
            - Caching/CDN
            - Load balancing
            - Network failures
            - 'hot' users
    4. Wrap up (5 min)
        Monitoring and alerting
        Summary of design