Hashing
    One way obfuscation of data.

Cryptographic Hashing (Data Integrity)
    Ensures that data is not tampered with between participants.
    Goal: Take an input and produce a fixed-size string that is computationally impossible to reverse or spoof
    Algorithms: SHA-256 (MD5 is vulnerable to collision attacks)
    Application: Using HMAC with a secret key to hash.

HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code)
    Solves:
        - Integrity: Has the data changed?
        - Authenticity: Did it come from who I think it did?
    SHA-256 only deals with Integrity, not authenticity.
    HMAC uses a Shared Secret Key.
        Sender takes the messages and appends a secret key (known to sender and receiver)
        Hashed together Hash(Message + Secret)
        Original message is sent with the hash.
        Receiver takes the message, appends their copy of the key, hashes it and compares the signature.
        If they match, it is authentic as a spoofer does not know the key needed to make the right hash.
    When a merchant account is setup, Adyen provides an HMAC Key.
        When Adyen sends the request to your webhook, they include the X-Adyen-Signature header.
        Merchant backend must recalculate the HMAC using the raw request body and the stored key
            and compare the signature before processing any payment.
    Security considerations:
        - A Nonce (number used once) or timestamp can be added to prevent repeat sending of the request
        - Constant-time string comparison: if a string comparison exits early, attackers can learn it over time
        - Payload ordering: Order of fields in the request body matter as they change the hash despite having the same data.

Password Hashing (Storage Security)
    Standard hashing like SHA-256 is too fast, leading to possible brute force attacks.
        Include Salting and a Cost Factor
    Algorithms: Argon2 or bcrypt
    Pillars:
        - Salting (prevents rainbow table attacks)
            Unique, random string added to password before hashing
            Stored in plain text alongside hash, but unique per user.
            Even if users have the same password, their hash is different, forcing hackers to crack passwords individually
        - Cost Factor (thwarts brute-force)
            Artificial slowing of hash computation
                - bcrypt: uses many iterations
                - argon2: how much RAM is needed (breaking ASICs)
        - Peppering (extra layer)
            Like a salt, but stored in an HSM (Hardware Security Module) or environment secret
            Even if a SQL dump is taken, attackers won't have the 'salt' portion
    Considerations:
        - Latency: if cost is too high, it can slow the system or lead to DoS vulnerability
        - Iterative upgrades: upgrade to higher security on new user logins, since you don't have the actual password until then
    Good video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zt8Cocdy15c

Consistent Hashing (System Scalability)
    Allows hashing to a 'ring' of nodes, allowing for more dynamic add/remove of nodes
        without causing a full rehashing of all entries
    It also allows for a given merchant to always hit the same servers for 'sticky sessions'
        or to ensure the same local cache is used

Non-Crypto Hashing (Performance)
    Used for things like HashTables to speed up data access