HTTPS (TLS)
    This is a means of creating a secure connection between 2 participating nodes
        that encrypts and hides all information inside each request/response to prevent snooping.

The flow (TLS 1.2): RSA Key Exchange
    1. TCP Handshake (creating a non-secure connection first):
        Client attempts connection to server (TCP SYN, TCP SYN+ACK, TCP ACK).
        At this point, a connection has been successfully established.
    2. Certificate Check (Exchanging Asymmetric info):
        Client tells server which TLS protocols it can handle.
        Server ACKs it, and provides their certificate.
            The certificate contains the public key for encryption.
        The Client checks a trusted authority to verify the certificate is valid.
        At this point, the client and server 'trust' who they say they are and the public key is known.
    3. Key Exchange:
         The client creates a symmetric session key for encryption, and encrypts it with the public key.
         It gets sent to the server, where it is decrypted using the private key.
         Now both sides have the same symmetric key for encryption/decryption.
    4. Data transmission:
        Both sides send and receive encrypted payloads, and decrypt using the session key.
        Symmetric encryption is faster and more suitable for large payloads after the initial exchange.

More modern approach (TLS 1.3):
    1. TCP handshake is the same
    2. Certificate phase:
        Certificate check and Key Exchange is done in a single step.
        The Diffie-Hellman exchange is used to already send one half of the Key Share from the client.
    3. The symmetric key is never sent over the wire.
        The key is mathematically derived together but independently.

    If the private key is every leaked or stolen, it was only used to create the secure connection.
    The symmetric key used for encryption/decryption is never shared over the wire.
    With TLS 1.2, if the attacker gets the private key, they can actually crack the symmetric key and decrypt all prior traffic if it was saved.