What is a HashMap?
    A key-value store that hashes the key's value to immediately reference the index where the value is kept.
    This allows for O(1) inserts and gets.

Core data structure?
    At the core, it is an array where each index is a bucket implemented as a Linked-List or Red-Black tree.
    When you insert, the following happens:
        1. The key's hashCode() is invoked
        2. A supplemental function spreads the bits to better diversify the spread of indexes.
            This fixes bad hashing functions.
        3. This hash is mapped down to an index within the bounds of the underlying array
    Collisions are handled as follows:
        - Linked-Lists: New entry is added to the list
        - If a bucket becomes crowded (8 nodes), Java converts it to a Red-Black Tree
    On lookup:
        1. The key is hashed to find the bucket's index
        2. The list or tree is searched by using equals() for each entry
        The former is O(n) and the latter is O(log n)
    What happens if the array fills up?
        - By default, it resizes to double previous capacity at 75% full (a load factor of 0.75)
        - Every element is then re-hashed for a new position in the array
    -> If you know how many items you're going to store (eg. 1000), they you oversize it to prevent resizing.
            eg. For 1000 items at 0.75 load factor, you set initial capacity to 1334

Why is it not thread-safe?
    If 2 threads resize the hashmap, they can accidentally create a circular reference in the
        underlying linked list, eating 100% of the CPU

How does Hashing work?
    1. The hashCode() method
        hashCode() is inherited from the Object class, returning a 32-bit signed integer
        For any 2 Objects of the same type with the same data, it must always return the same number.
            hashCode() and equals() must both be overridden for the hashing and searching in list to work.
    2. The spread function
        Bitwise shuffling is done to spread the number out a bit to prevent clumping on high bits
    3. Index calculation
        The 32-bit hash is mapped down to 0->upper-bound of internal array
            Index = (length -1) & Hash
            This works because the internal array is always a power of 2 since it doubles from 16

So how does a ConcurrentHashMap build on this?
    The old way (Java 7 and earlier):
        Map was divided into 16 segments, each a HashMap with it's own lock
            Pros: Multiple threads could lock different segments individually, improving throughput
            Cons: If two or more threads wanted the same segment, the lock applied sleeping the other thread.
                    Resizing the map locked every segment while rehashing.

    The modern way (Java 8+)
        Locking is now on the individual bucket level.
        Putting data into a bucket uses a CAS operation:
            1. Thread calculates the index via hashing
            2. Sees the bucket is null
            3. Uses CAS to 'swap' null for the new Node
            4. If that null hasn't changed, it succeeds
                If it is not empty, the thread uses the synchronized keyword on the bucket.

        If writing uses CAS and synchronisation, how does it read without locking?
            It uses the 'volatile' keyword on the 'val' and 'next' fields of the Node.
            These variables use hardware to ensure all other threads see the update immediately, allowing lock-free reads.
                Every read is guaranteed to see the latest successful write.

    How resizing is achieved?
        Once load factor is reached, first thread that notices starts the transfer
        Leaves a ForwardingNode in the buckets it has finished moving
        Future threads that hit a ForwardingNode join in and help others move buckets.
        This allows multiple threads to move it, rather than locking down a single thread.