What is an index?
    It is like an index at the back of the book, or a library catalogue.
    It tells the db exactly where to look, rather than doing a full sequential scan.

Core Concept: Balanced Trees (B-Trees)
    A balanced tree ensures that the path from the top to any specific piece of data is
        always the same distance (ensuring consistent performance).
        Every leaf node is the exact same distance from the root.
    It is actually a separate structure from the table itself, storing the values of a column
        in sorted order with a pointer to the physical location in the table.
    When used, the b-tree is traversed to the value, finds it in a reasonable number of hops
        and grabs the value from the disk (or just the index if the query doesn't need additional info).

B-Tree Structure:
    1. Root Node: Entry point containing high-level ranges of values
    2. Internal Nodes: Granular ranges getting closer to what is being searched for
    3. Leaf Nodes: These contain the actual indexed values (such as user_id) and the location of the row in the table.

Excellent for:
    - Range scans: leaf nodes are sorted and linked.
        eg. WHERE id > 100 and id < 200: once db finds 100, it just walks sideways for the rest
    - Logarithmic complexity: Searching is O(log n) even for millions of rows

Further concepts:
    - Index-only scan: if the index has all the information requested from a SELECT,
        it can return data straight from the index without going to the table.
    - Multi-Column Indexes: Allows indexing on multiple columns at once or partial.
        eg. CREATE INDEX idx_user_name ON users (last_name, first_name)
        This can be used to search for either last_name or last_name+first_name.
        It does not work for a search on first_name.
    - Partial indexes: You can set a condition for the index itself.
        Eg. you only ever query active users: CREATE INDEX idx_active_users ON users (email) WHERE status = 'active';
        This keeps indexes much smaller and faster with less data.

Cost of indexing:
    Mutating actions must update both the table and all associated indexes, making them slower

Query Planner:
    Determines fastest approach amongst full scans, indexes etc
    Even if there is an index, it might choose a full scan if it will be faster.
        eg. indexing a boolean value where 50% of the rows are true.
        The db will do a full scan anyway despite the index.
    You need indexes on columns with many unique values (high cardinality)
        eg. IDs, emails or timestamps

EXPLAIN keywords
    - Explain: Shows the plan the db _expects_ to follow
    - Explain Analyze: actually runs the query and compares the estimates with reality

Gotchas:
    Queries can be written that 'break' indexes. Eg. using UPPER(email) means we can traverse the index quickly.
    Solution: Expression indexes can store indexes with pre-computed output from functions.
        eg. CREATE INDEX idx_upper_email ON users (UPPER(email))

---
Inverted Index
    These are useful for full text queries such as SELECT WHERE LIKE '%pizza%'
    Since it appears in the middle, we can't use a b-tree which is sorted by prefix.
    This is more commonly used in JSON, text and document searches.

    These indexes list each document/page/entry associated with each word.
    So if you search for '%pizza%', it will lookup 'pizza' and immediately know all the rows/documents containing it.
    It is a HashMap of word -> entries
        eg. pizza -> [doc1, doc7, doc100]

---
Clustered Indexes
    The index _is_ the table. Logical ordering of keys determines the physical ordering of rows in the table
    B-Tree structure is used, but the actual data is in the tree itself.
    Can only be one per table.
    Makes range scans very quick.

Non-clustered Indexes
    Separate structure from the rows themselves.
    Contains the keys and a pointer to the actual location of the row, rather than the actual data.

PostgreSQL
    All tables stored as heaps, with data inserted in any order.
    All indexes are non-clustered and point to the heap.

    There is a CLUSTER command to invoke a reordering of the data in the heap, but it must be rerun.

    If speed is necessary, you create the non-clustered index with all necessary data included
        so that no hop is needed from index to heap.
